Good afternoon. My name is Dominik Tichý and today I would like to present to you the results of my master's thesis work. The topic of my thesis is "Lightweight Visualisation and Annotation of Volumetric and Segmentation Data in Molstar".

We are currently living through what scientists call the 'Resolution Revolution.' Thanks to advancements in electron microscopy, we are seeing a massive influx of data. A perfect example of this is the research and development of covid vaccines which were in part supported by solving the structure of the spike protein from microscopy images. However, these massive microscopy datasets are useless if researchers can’t easily visualize them, annotate them, and share them with the broader research community.

Currently, in the field of structural biology the defacto industry standard for web visualizers is Molstar. Molstar has support for visualizing large volumetric and segmentation throught an extension called Molstar Volumes and Segmentations (or molstar volseg for short). This extension succeeded at providing a good proof of concept, however, it has since became an unmaintained project which lacks behind the rest of the molstar ecosystem. 

Naturally, this raised the need to update the extension in order to continue support for visualizing the volumetric data. Fortunately, there have since been other advancements in the Molstar platform, most notably the introduction of the MolViewSpec standard. MolViewSpec is a declarative standard which allows to describe molecular scenes in a tree-like structure. This marked a great shift from the procedural workflows used before the advent of this standard where you would have to create a custom molstar viewer instance and wrap it in custom loading logic. However, that changed. Now for most workflows you can simply create a single MolViewSpec file and share it with others. Additionally, to this standard, there have been new applications created, notably two libraries for building MolViewSpec scenes programatically and MolViewStories which provides the same functionality as the libraries but in a web user interface.

Taking into consideration the limitations of the Molstar Volseg extension we started thinking about the possibility to replace some of the components  client with the MolViewSpec standard. This is the architecture of the Molstar Volseg components. In a nutshell the extension consists of a preprocessor which ingests

To summarize my work, I have firstly replaced the Molstar Volume and Segmentation client with MolViewSpec which will server as a blueprint for the next generation of the Molstar Volseg preprocessor. Secondly, I have created a conversion library for migrating data from the old CVSX file format to the new MolViewSpec file formats. Thirdly, I have built a web application to provide access to this tool to researchers and to visualize and share the results. Finally, this work has contributed to a research paper which was published in a scientific journal.

Thank you for your attention.